Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document 101 Filed 02/13/26 Page 1 of 10

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Case No. 3:25-cr-5
Plaintiff,
PLEA AGREEMENT
Vv.
KYLE KAHALEHILI MAEZ-SCHAACK,
Defendant.

Pursuant to Rule 11(c)(1)(A) and (B) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
the United States of America, by its attorneys, Nicholas W. Chase, United States
Attorney for the District of North Dakota, Jacob T. Rodenbiker, Assistant United States
Attorney, David L. Jaffe, Chief of the Violent Crime and Racketeering Section, and
Shriram Harid, Trial Attorney; Defendant, KYLE KAHALEHILI MAEZ-SCHAACK;
and Defendant’s counsel, Brian P. Toay, agree to the following:

1, Defendant acknowledges the Second Superseding Indictment charges
violations of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 924(c)(1)(A), 1201(a)(1), 1951, and
2, and Title 21, United States Code, Sections 841(a)(1), 841(b)(1)(C), 841(b)(1)(A)(viil),
and 846.

2. Defendant has read the charges and Defendant’s attorney has fully
explained the charges to Defendant.

3. Defendant fully understands the nature and elements of the charged crimes.

4. Defendant will voluntarily plead guilty to Counts One, Two, Four, and Six

of the Second Superseding Indictment.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 2 of 10

2: The parties agree this Plea Agreement shall be filed as part of the Court
record and be governed by Rule 11(c) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The
parties specifically agree that Rule 11(c)(1)(C) does not apply. If the United States makes
the non-binding recommendations specified in this Plea Agreement, then Defendant
acknowledges that this agreement will have been fulfilled. Except as provided in
Rule 11(c)(5), the Court’s refusal to accept any or all terms of the Plea Agreement does
not give Defendant a right to withdraw Defendant’s guilty plea.

6. Defendant will plead guilty because Defendant is in fact guilty of the
charges. In pleading guilty to Counts One, Two, Four, and Six of the Second Superseding
Indictment, Defendant acknowledges a sufficient factual basis exists to satisfy the
essential elements, including:

Beginning in the waning hours of March 5, 2024, at the orders of co-
defendant Jordan Lindell and an as-yet unindicted co-conspirator (UC-1),
Victim A was kidnapped by multiple individuals, including defendant
KYLE KAHALEHILI MAEZ-SCHAACK. Lindell sent MAEZ-
SCHAACK text messages, including a screenshot of a social media profile
of Victim A and an address, and told Maez-Schaack to pick up Victim A to
collect on a drug debt. Victim A owed Lindell and UC-1 $6,000 for 500
grams or more of methamphetamine. Victim A was held for ransom for that
amount. Victim A was taken at gunpoint from Fargo by MAEZ-
SCHAACK and his co-conspirators and beaten and brought in Victim A’s
own vehicle to co-defendant Frankwoodson Altenor’s residence in
Moorhead, Minnesota. There, Victim A continued to be held for ransom
while one or more individuals ordered Victim A to call his friends and
family to ask for money. Despite several calls to family and friends, Victim
A was unable to raise any funds to pay the ransom. MAEZ-SCHAACK,
Altenor, and others eventually left Victim A unattended at the Moorhead
residence during daytime March 6, whereupon Victim A escaped the
residence. MAEZ-SCHAACK and his co-conspirators kept Victim A’s
vehicle after the kidnapping.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 3 of 10

Lindell led a drug trafficking organization that primarily distributed
methamphetamine in the Red River Valley and Devils Lake area of North Dakota,
often obtaining it from Minnesota’s Twin Cities. MAEZ-SCHAACK was one of
the drug distributors for Lindell and UC-1. MAEZ-SCHAACK was often used as
the muscle of the group and was adept at stealing cars. Altenor obtained
methamphetamine from Lindell and MAEZ-SCHAACK and often distributed
smaller amounts to his associates.

Additionally, on April 6, 2024, MAEZ-SCHAACK crashed a stolen vehicle in the
area of 17th Avenue South and 25th Street South in Fargo, North Dakota, after
attempting to evade detection by Fargo police. MAEZ-SCHAACK fled the vehicle
and left behind a firearm, a black SIG Sauer P365 pistol bearing Serial Number
66F717834, in the vicinity of the vehicle. MAEZ-SCHAACK also left behind a
backpack near the vehicle, which contained a black magazine with seventeen 9
mm rounds. MAEZ-SCHAACK knew he was previously convicted of a crime
punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and was prohibited
from possessing a firearm.

7. Defendant understands the following maximum penalties apply:
Count One Count Two
Imprisonment: Life Life (minimum 10 years)
Fine: $250,000 $10,000,000
Supervised Release: 5 years 5 years (mandatory)
Count Four

Imprisonment:
Fine:

Supervised Release:

Imprisonment:
Fine:

Supervised Release:

Life (minimum 7 years consecutive to any other sentence)
$250,000
5 years

Count Six

15 years
$250,000
3 years

Each count also carries a $100 special assessment. Defendant agrees to pay the Clerk of

United States District Court the special assessments on or before the day of sentencing.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-O0005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 4 of 10

8.

including:

Defendant understands that by pleading guilty Defendant surrenders rights,

(a) The right to a speedy public jury trial and related rights as follow:

(i) A jury would be composed of 12 lay persons selected at
random. Defendant and Defendant’s attorney would help choose the jurors
by removing prospective jurors “for cause,” where actual bias or other
disqualification is shown; or by removing jurors without cause by
exercising so-called peremptory challenges. The jury would have to agree
unanimously before it could return a verdict. The jury would be instructed
that Defendant is presumed innocent and that it could not return a guilty
verdict unless it found Defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.

(ii) Ata trial, the United States is required to present witness
testimony and other evidence against Defendant. Defendant’s attorney can
confront and examine them. In turn, the defense can present witness
testimony and other evidence. If witnesses for Defendant refuse to appear
voluntarily, Defendant can require their attendance through the subpoena
power of the Court.

(iii) At atrial, Defendant has a privilege against self-
incrimination; thus, Defendant can decline to testify. No inference of guilt
can be drawn from Defendant’s refusal to testify. Defendant can choose to

testify but cannot be required to testify.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 5of 10

(b) Defendant has a right to remain silent. However, under terms of the

Plea Agreement, the Judge will likely ask Defendant questions about Defendant’s

criminal conduct to ensure that there is a factual basis for Defendant’s plea.

9, Defendant understands that by pleading guilty Defendant is giving up all of
the rights set forth in the prior paragraph, and there will be no trial. Defendant’s attorney
has explained those rights, and consequences of Defendant’s waiver.

10. The Court shall impose a sentence sufficient to comply with purposes set
forth in the Sentencing Reform Act. In doing so, the Court shall consider factors set forth
in 18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) and must consult and consider the United States Sentencing
Commission’s Guidelines Manual, (Nov. 2025) (USSG). Defendant understands that the
United States Attorney’s Office will fully apprise the District Court and the United States
Probation and Pretrial Services Office of the nature, scope, and extent of Defendant’s
conduct, including all matters in aggravation and mitigation of sentence. The United
States expressly reserves the right to appeal from an unreasonable sentence.

11. | This Plea Agreement is binding only upon the United States Attorney for
the District of North Dakota. It does not bind any United States Attorney outside the
District of North Dakota, nor does it bind any tribal, state, or local prosecutor. They
remain free to prosecute Defendant for any offenses under their jurisdiction. This Plea
Agreement also does not bar or compromise any civil or administrative claim.

12. Defendant understands the United States Attorney reserves the right to
notify any local, state, or federal agency by whom Defendant is licensed, or with whom

Defendant does business, of Defendant’s conviction.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 6 of 10

13. The parties agree the base offense level for Defendant’s conduct is 32 on
Counts One, Two, and Six. (USSG § 2A4.1(a)). On those counts, the parties further agree
a 6-level upward adjustment applies for a ransom demand. (USSG § 2A4.1(b)(1)). On
Count Four the parties agree the guideline sentence is 7 years, consecutive to any other
sentence. (USSG § 2K2.4(b)).

14. At sentencing, United States agrees to recommend a 2-level downward
adjustment for acceptance of responsibility, provided Defendant has demonstrated a
genuine acceptance of responsibility. (USSG § 3E1.1(a)). The United States further
agrees to move for an additional 1-level downward adjustment for timely notifying the
United States of Defendant’s intention to enter a guilty plea, thus permitting the Court
and the United States to allocate their resources efficiently. (USSG § 3E1.1(b)).

15. | The parties stipulate and agree that, as of the date of this agreement,
Defendant appears to qualify for a 2-level downward adjustment for acceptance of
responsibility. However, the government may, in its discretion, contest the adjustment
under USSG § 3E1.1(a) should Defendant subsequently fail to continue to accept
responsibility by failing to abide by the conditions of release, if applicable; by providing
false information to the Court, the probation office, or the United States; by unlawfully
using controlled substances; by attempting to obstruct justice; by breaching this Plea
Agreement; or by acting in a way that is inconsistent with, or failing to act in any way

that is consistent with the granting of the adjustment under USSG § 3E1.1(a).

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 7 of 10

16. Neither the Court nor the Probation Office is a party to the Plea Agreement.
Neither the Court nor the Probation Office is bound by the Plea Agreement as to
determining the Sentencing Guideline range. The Court may apply other adjustments the
parties have not agreed upon. The parties reserve the right to argue for or object to any
adjustment not otherwise agreed upon or waived in this plea agreement.

17. At sentencing, the United States will recommend a prison sentence at the
low end of the applicable guidelines range and supervised release for a term of five years
and will move to dismiss Counts Three and Five of the Second Superseding Indictment as
to Defendant.

18. Defendant acknowledges and understands that if Defendant violates any
term of this Plea Agreement, engages in any further criminal activity, or fails to appear
for sentencing, the United States will be released from its commitments. In that event,
this Plea Agreement shall become null and void at the discretion of the United States, and
Defendant will face the following consequences: (1) all testimony and other information
Defendant has provided at any time to attorneys, employees, or law enforcement officers
of the government, to the Court, or to the Fedexdl Grand Jury, may be used against
Defendant in any prosecution or proceeding; and (2) the United States will be entitled to
reinstate previously dismissed charges and/or pursue additional charges against
Defendant and to use any information obtained directly or indirectly from Defendant in
those additional prosecutions. Nothing in this agreement prevents the United States from
prosecuting Defendant for perjury, false statement(s), or false declaration(s), if Defendant

commits such acts in connection with this agreement or otherwise.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-O0005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 8 of 10

19. Defendant acknowledges the provisions of Title 18, United States Code,
Sections 2259 and 3663A, which require the Court to order restitution. Defendant agrees
to pay restitution as may be ordered by the Court. Defendant acknowledges and agrees
that the Court will order Defendant to make restitution for all loss caused by Defendant’s
conduct, regardless of whether counts of the Second Superseding Indictment will be
dismissed or additional charges not brought as part of this Plea Agreement. Defendant
agrees the full amount of restitution will be due and payable immediately with any
outstanding restitution balance to be paid pursuant to a payment schedule established by
the Court. Defendant further agrees to grant the United States a wage assignment,
liquidate assets, or complete any other tasks the Court finds reasonable and appropriate
for the prompt payment of any restitution or fine ordered by the Court.

20. The United States will file a Supplement in this case, as is routinely done in
every case, even though there may or may not be any additional terms. Defendant and
Defendant’s attorney acknowledge that no threats, promises, or representations exist
beyond the terms of this Plea Agreement.

21.  Defendant’s Waiver of Appeal. Defendant acknowledges having been
advised by counsel of Defendant’s rights to appeal the conviction or sentence in this case,
including the appeal right conferred by 18 U.S.C. § 3742, and to challenge the conviction
or sentence collaterally through post-conviction proceedings, including proceedings
under 28 U.S.C. § 2255. Defendant understands these rights, and in exchange for the
concessions made by the United States in this plea agreement, Defendant hereby

knowingly and voluntarily waives these rights, except as specifically reserved herein.

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 9 of 10

Defendant’s waiver of these rights includes, but is not limited to, a waiver of all rights to
appeal or to collaterally attack: Defendant’s conviction or sentence; all non-jurisdictional
issues; any assessment, restitution or forfeiture order; the constitutionality of the
applicable guidelines; and the constitutionality of the statute(s) to which Defendant is
pleading guilty or under which Defendant is sentenced, or to argue that the admitted
conduct does not fall within the scope of the statute(s). Defendant reserves the right to
appeal a sentence of imprisonment imposed above the upper end of the applicable
guidelines range and the right to appeal or to collaterally attack the conviction or sentence
based on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel that challenges the validity of the
guilty plea or this waiver.

22. By signing this Plea Agreement, Defendant further specifically waives
Defendant’s right to seek to withdraw Defendant’s plea of guilty under Rule 11(d) of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure once the plea has been entered in accordance with
this agreement. The appellate court will enforce such waivers. Defendant agrees that any
attempt to withdraw Defendant’s plea will be denied and any appeal of such denial
should be dismissed.

23. The Assistant United States Attorney and attorney for Defendant agree to
abide by the provisions of Rule 32(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. They
acknowledge their obligation to use good-faith efforts to resolve any disputes regarding
the Presentence Investigation Report through a conference or other informal procedures.

24. Defendant understands that by pleading guilty he will be convicted, and

that any individual convicted who is not a United States citizen may be removed from the

----PAGE----
Case 3:25-cr-00005-PDW Document101_ Filed 02/13/26 Page 10 of 10

United States, denied citizenship, and denied admission to the United States in the future.
A naturalized United States citizen may face denaturalization. Defendant’s attorney has
explained these consequences of his guilty plea.

25. Defendant acknowledges reading and understanding all provisions of the
Plea Agreement. Defendant and Defendant’s attorney have discussed the case and
reviewed the Plea Agreement. They have discussed Defendant’s constitutional and other
rights, including Defendant’s plea-statement rights under Rule 410 of the Federal Rules
of Evidence and Rule 11(f) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

AGREED:

NICHOLAS W. CHASE

United States Attorney
Digitally signed by JACOB

J) STR L3 (. L RODENBIKER

ean 2026. 02.13 09:50:23
By: JACOB T. RODENBIKER
Assistant United States Attorney

Dated: 13 Feb 2026

DAVID L. JAFFE
Chief, Violent Crime & Racketeering Section

Dated: 02/13/26 Shriram Nard

By: SHRIRAM HARID
Trial Attofney

pated: \O )- Ab

LEHILI MAEZ-SCHAACK

Dated: 7 /: of F

BRIAN P. TOAY
Attorney for Defend

10

----PAGE----
