Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 _ Filed 12/08/25 Page 1of7

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Vv.
No. 24-CR-417 (CKK)
EVAN TANGEMAN,

Defendant.

STATEMENT OF OFFENSE IN SUPPORT OF GUILTY PLEA

I. Summary of the Plea Agreement

As set forth in the attached plea agreement, Defendant Evan Tangeman (hereinafter
referred to as “Defendant” or “Tangeman”) agrees to accept responsibility and plead guilty to
Count One of the Indictment, charging Defendant with RICO Conspiracy, in violation of Title

18, United States Code, Section 1962(d).

II. Elements of the Offenses

Count One, RICO Conspiracy

The essential elements of the offense of RICO Conspiracy, in violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Section 1962(d), each of which the government must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt to sustain a conviction, are:

1. That the defendant knowingly agreed to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in
the conduct of the affairs of the charged enterprise through a pattern of racketeering
activity.

2. That an enterprise would be established as alleged in the indictment;

3. That the enterprise would be engaged in, or its activities would affect, interstate or

foreign commerce.
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 Filed 12/08/25 Page 2of7

4. That the defendant would be employed by, or associated with, the enterprise.

II. Statement of Facts

Pursuant to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11, the United States and the Defendant,
with the concurrence of Defendant’s attorney, stipulate and agree that the following facts are
true and accurate. The following statement of facts does not purport to include all of the
Defendant’s illegal conduct. It also does not purport to be an inclusive recitation of everything
that the Defendant heard, knew, or witnessed concerning the illegal activities committed by
Defendant and others. It is intended to represent sufficient information for the Court to find a
factual basis for accepting the Defendant’s guilty plea. |

The Social Engineering Enterprise

The Social Engineering Enterprise (“SE Enterprise”) was made up of a group of
individuals based in California, Connecticut, New York, Florida, and abroad. The SE Enterprise
began on a date unknown but by no later than October of 2023 and continued through at least in
or around March 2025. Members and associates of the SE enterprise served different roles and
held different responsibilities. The roles included database hackers, organizers, target identifiers,
callers, money launderers, and residential burglars targeting hardware virtual currency wallets.
Tangmenan was a money launderer with the SE Enterprise. The purposes of the SE Enterprise
included, but were not limited to, stealing virtual currency from victims throughout the United
States through fraudulent pretenses; disguising, concealing, and obfuscating the source and
ownership of the stolen funds through the use of virtual currency laundering techniques; and
converting laundered virtual currency into fiat currency and wire transfers for use at nightclubs,

for the purchase of exotic cars, jewelry, luxury handbags, clothing, private jet rentals, and rental
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 Filed 12/08/25 Page 3of7

mansions in Los Angeles, the Hamptons, and Miami.

Members and associates of the SE Enterprise used stolen virtual currency to purchase,
among other things, (1) nightclub services ranging up to $500,000 per evening, (2) luxury
handbags valued in the tens of thousands of dollars which were given away at nightclub parties,
(3) luxury watches valued between $100,000 up to over $500,000, (4) luxury clothing valued in
the tens of thousands of dollars, (5) rental homes in Los Angeles, the Hamptons, and Miami, (6)
private jet rentals for travel, (7) a team of private security guards, and (8) a fleet of exotic cars,
ranging in value from $100,000 up to $3,800,000.

Tangeman met the members of the SE Enterprise in late 2023 when SE Enterprise
members Malone Lam, Jeandiel Serrano, Connor Flansburg and others arrived in Los Angeles
and needed assistance in booking rental homes with stolen cryptocurrency. Tangeman and
Money Exchanger-1 arranged for an initial short-term Airbnb for the SE Enterprise members by
receiving stolen cryptocurrency and working with a bulk-cash convertor in the Los Angeles area
to obtain fiat cash for the home payment. Tangeman and Money Exchanger-1 charged a fee for
their services.

Tangeman knew that these members of the SE Enterprise were stealing cryptocurrency
through social engineering schemes and that they had no legitimate employment.

The SE Enterprise members remained in the Los Angeles area following the expiration of
this initial rental term. The group soon began working directly with Tangeman to obtain large
rental mansions throughout the Los Aaeeied area, paying Tangeman in stolen cryptocurrency.
Tangeman converted the stolen cryptocurrency into fiat cash and worked with real estate agents

in Los Angeles to procure large mansions for the SE Enterprise. He paid upfront security
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 Filed 12/08/25 Page 4of7

deposits and often the entire as term, all in cash, for members of the enterprise.

Tangeman also ensured that the lease documents did not contain the true names of the
members of the SE Enterprise. Tangeman used fake identification documents or stolen identity
documents to complete the rental transactions to conceal the true owners of the homes. This was
all done with the goal of concealing their identities. These members of the SE Enterprise were
unemployed young men, often under 20 years old and they did not want to draw law
enforcement attention for renting homes for $40,000 - $80,000 per month with no legitimate
income. Some of these rental homes were valued, according to Zillow, between $4,000,000 up to
nearly $9,000,000.

In an August 25, 2024 group text chain Tangeman worked through a substantial cash
deposit on a home for Malone Lam. Tangeman, using the username “Tate” and discussed that he
“need at least $500k rn [right now] to give to the house owner..is that doable.” Lam asked where
to send the crypto and Money Exchanger-1 responded with his USDT (Teather) address. Money
Exchanger-1 instructed Lam and others to send $550,000 in cryptocurrency and he would deduct
transactions from the total owed each time until they accumulated approximately $3,000,000,
which was owed to the homeowner. Tangeman then told Lam that, “[t]he move in date all
depends on how quickly i can get the usdt because i have to get it exchanged and wired over it all
takes time...the 500k is going to be dropped off tonight.”

Lam then asked to tour the home and Tangeman told him that it wasn’t a good idea
because the realtor had listed a fake identity on the lease documents to conceal Lam’s true
ownership. Specifically, Tangeman stated, “for the house she [realtor] put a person that is 55

years old that is living there with his family...put it under**...so let me see about touring.”
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 Filed 12/08/25 Page5of7

Tangeman also arranged for rental homes for the members of the SE Enterprise in Miami
when the group moved to Miami in September 2025. Tangeman procured these homes through
stolen cryptocurrency sent to him by Lam: Following the September 18, 2024 search warrants at
Malone Lam’s two homes in Miami, Tangeman logged into the security camera system and took
screenshots of FBI agents searching the homes.

Throughout the course of the conspiracy, Tangeman also provided crypto-to-cash money
laundering services to members of the SE Enterprise. In July 2024, Tangeman helped Lam
secure an additional rental home. Tangeman sent Lam a link to the home, followed by ”u can
move in right away to this one as[]well.” Lam responded, “let’s do it,” and Tangeman replied
“Trying to see who has cash atm be [Money Exchanger 1] doesn’t do exchanges anymore.”
Tangeman followed up with “T’ll call u in 5 talking to his new cash guy atm [at the moment].”
Tangeman then requested $196,880 in USDT from Lam and requested that it be sent to his
USDT address. Lam said he didn’t have USDT and asked for an XMR (Monero) address.
Tangeman shared his “cash guy’s” XMR address and Lam sent the $196,880. Tangeman replied
with “Waiting for cash atm...Then going to give it to her.”

While in Miami in September 2024, Tangeman provided fiat cash to the members of the
SE Enterprise on numerous occasions, in exchange for stolen and laundered cryptocurrency.

Following Malone Lam’s arrest in Miami on September 18, 2024, Tangeman instructed
another member of the SE Enterprise to travel to Lam’s Los Angeles homes, retrieve electronic
devices, and destroy them. This member followed the directions and did in fact destroy the
devices. This was done to prevent their seizure by law enforcement and impair their integrity for

trial.
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 Filed 12/08/25 Page 6of7

As a member of the SE Enterprise, Tangeman agreed that members of the SE Enterprise
would commit at least two racketeering acts as defined by Title 18, United States Code, Section
1961. Tangeman knew that he was engaging in financial transactions in excess of $10,000
which represented the proceeds of unlawful activity, that being the social engineering
cryptocurrency thefts being executed by members of the SE Enterprise, to include Lam and
others. He further knew that he was changing the cryptocurrency into fiat cash for the SE
Enterprise members to disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, and control of the stolen
cryptocurrency. Tangeman agrees that it was reasonably foreseeable to him that at least

$3,500,000 would be laundered during the existence of the SE Enterprise.

Respectfully Submitted
JEANIN R
United’States Key
f\
By: —
senberg -

Assistant United S Attorney
Case 1:24-cr-00417-CKK Document 257 _ Filed 12/08/25 Page 7 of 7

DEFENDANT’S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

I have read the Statement of Offense setting forth the facts related to. my guilty plea. I have
discussed this proffer fully with my attorney, Dwight Crawley, Esq. I fully understand this proffer
and I acknowledge its truthfulness, agree to it and accept it without reservation. J do this voluntarily
and of my own free will. No threats have been made to me nor am I under the influence of anything
that could impede my ability to understand this proffer fully.

Date: [LI [zoe Gat

Evan Tangeman
ATTORNEY’S ACKNOWLEDGMENT

I have read each of the pages constituting the Government’s proffer of evidence related to
my client’s guilty plea. I have reviewed the entire proffer with my client and have discussed it with
him fully. I concur in my client’s agreement with andccéeptance of this proffer.

Date: / 2s a aca Yiée
y/ Dwight Crawley, Esq.

Counsel for Defendant

